README.md, before:

# ActiveBear
An Encrypted Messaging webapp written in C# / ASP.NET core.

## Security Features

The purpose of this repo is to provide a simple, lightweight and easy to implement encrypted messaging solution.

ActiveBear holds a number of user-created 'channels', each with a unique key.
To be able to access a channel, users must first auth to a channel by entering the correct channel key. After that, they will have to enter the password on every page load.

Keys are hashed to a SHA-256 byte array ([see here](https://github.com/emn178/js-sha256)), then used to encrypt messages with an [AES-OFB block cipher](https://github.com/ricmoo/aes-js) algorithm.

Messages are encrypted end-to-end, so they are completely secure during transit and when stored. Decrypting is done on the fly and can only happen when the correct key has been supplied.

## Privacy features

ActiveBear uses one identity cookie to associate a web user with an account. This cookie stores no information itself except a reference to the account ID.

No logs are kept. Note however the ISP/provider of the server may.

Client does not use analytics or any willful third-party tracking.

## How to run it

Clone the repo and open it with VisualStudio or your preferred alternate.
In the `ActiveBear/ActiveBear/` directory, npm install the two encryption libraries:
  * [js-sha256](https://github.com/emn178/js-sha256)
  * [aes-js](https://github.com/ricmoo/aes-js)
  
And SignalR, the microsoft package used for server-client communication:

  * [signalr](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@aspnet/signalr)
  
Next, build the project in your IDE. When running, you should be able to use it on:

`https://localhost:5001`

## How can I help to develop it?

Commit message:

ReadMe touchups.
Going to PR to master so the main page has a readme available.
Updates need to be made but its quite accurate for the time being.

README.md, after:

# ActiveBear
An Encrypted Messaging webapp written in C# and JavaScript using ASP.NET core.

## Security Features

The purpose of this repo is to provide a simple, lightweight and easy to implement encrypted messaging solution.

ActiveBear holds a number of user-created 'channels', each with a unique key.
To be able to access a channel, users must first auth to a channel by entering the correct channel key. After that, they will have to enter the password on every page load. This key is then used to decrypt channel messages on the fly, so if the wrong password is entered on page load the messages will not be decipherable.

Client-side encryption is done with an [AES-OFB block cipher](https://github.com/ricmoo/aes-js) algorithm. Keys/passwords are first hashed to a SHA-256 byte array ([see here](https://github.com/emn178/js-sha256)) then used to encrypt messages to ensure a very high level of protection.

All messages are encrypted end-to-end, so they are completely secure during transit and when stored. Decrypting is done on the fly and can only happen when the correct key has been supplied.

Additionally, an SSL layer is used for server-client connections to prevent MITM attacks, request/response spoofing and eavesdropping.

## Privacy features

ActiveBear uses one identity cookie to associate a web user with an account. This cookie stores no information itself except a reference to the account ID.

ActiveBear keeps no logs whatsoever. Please note however that the person operating the server or their ISP may keep logs on usage.

ActiveBear does not use analytics or any willful third-party tracking.

## How to run it

Clone the repo and open it with VisualStudio or your preferred alternate.
In the `ActiveBear/ActiveBear/` directory, npm install the two encryption libraries:
  * [js-sha256](https://github.com/emn178/js-sha256)
  * [aes-js](https://github.com/ricmoo/aes-js)
  
And SignalR, the microsoft package used for server-client communication:

  * [signalr](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@aspnet/signalr)
  
Next, build the project in your IDE. When running, you should be able to use it on:

`https://localhost:5001`

## How can I help development?

We are more than happy for new developers to join in and lend a hand. Feel free to email the [project owner](mailto:sobey.aiden@gmail.com) if you'd like to help- in the meantime we will create issues for desired upgrades when there's time.
